---
layout: post
title: Types of Hugs
image: 
location:  Madrid, Spain
tags:
- writing

---
 
 > I spent a few months analyzing the types of hugs I experience.


 <h2>Hugs</h2>

Hugs talk, they sing and sometimes they say things beyond words. They are poetic. In my experience, hugging and training people how to hug to communicate what they feel I have learned and noticed several types of hugs running wild in the market. This article explains my discoveries hugging people from all over the world. <br>
As a professional hugger, I break down a hug into these 3 definitive characteristics :
- Approach and Release : How one starts and ends a hug
- Duration : How long does the hug last
- Body Kinesiology : What happens between the contact area while hugging.

### Types of Hugs

1. **"Just good friends" Hug** : This hug takes place between parties who have been seeing for long time without conclusive remarks. One of the parties gives this hug but it is often misread. Typical characteristics include the time span of the hug and the tension and nervousness. The 'Hug-Release' is not gentle but sharp. The time span is quick almost as long as a gesture but a bit more. The contact area is large but concentrated around the shoulders. 
2. **"Bhai Bhai" Hug** : Bhai means brother in Hindi. This can also be called a very good friend hug. The approach is very casual and almost as the hug is a requirement. The release is particular is quick as well. The duration is long. The parties would often talk while hugging. The matter of talking modulates the contact area. If one party realizes that a tighter hug is required, it is made tigher and contact area is increased. This is one of my favorite hugs.
3. **"Stay away from my titties" Hug** : People have sensitive titties. Both genders. In this kind of hug, the person is trying to hug to as religiously as possible
4. I don’t hug Hug
5. Higenic Hug
6. Dont pat my back Hug
7. We will meet again Hug
8. We should never meet again Hug
9. It was nice to meet you Hug
10. Devour me Hug
11. I dont mean that Hug
12. Never ending Hug
13. Drunk Hug
14. Technical Hug
15. Gesture Hug
16. Parent Hug


